calibration - a pre-fuzzing stage where the execution path is examined to detect anomalies, establish baseline execution speed, and so on. Executed very briefly whenever a new find is being made.
trim L/S - another pre-fuzzing stage where the test case is trimmed to the shortest form that still produces the same execution path. The length (L) and stepover (S) are chosen in general relationship to file size.
bitflip L/S - deterministic bit flips. There are L bits toggled at any given time, walking the input file with S-bit increments. The current L/S variants are: 1/1, 2/1, 4/1, 8/8, 16/8, 32/8.
arith L/8 - deterministic arithmetics. The fuzzer tries to subtract or add small integers to 8-, 16-, and 32-bit values. The stepover is always 8 bits.
interest L/8 - deterministic value overwrite. The fuzzer has a list of known “interesting” 8-, 16-, and 32-bit values to try. The stepover is 8 bits.
extras - deterministic injection of dictionary terms. This can be shown as “user” or “auto”, depending on whether the fuzzer is using a user-supplied dictionary (-x) or an auto-created one. You will also see “over” or “insert”, depending on whether the dictionary words overwrite existing data or are inserted by offsetting the remaining data to accommodate their length.
havoc - a sort-of-fixed-length cycle with stacked random tweaks. The operations attempted during this stage include bit flips, overwrites with random and “interesting” integers, block deletion, block duplication, plus assorted dictionary-related operations (if a dictionary is supplied in the first place).
splice - a last-resort strategy that kicks in after the first full queue cycle with no new paths. It is equivalent to ‘havoc’, except that it first splices together two random inputs from the queue at some arbitrarily selected midpoint.
sync - a stage used only when -M or -S is set (see Tips for parallel fuzzing). No real fuzzing is involved, but the tool scans the output from other fuzzers and imports test cases as necessary. The first time this is done, it may take several minutes or so.